---
layout: post
title: Post 2
---
For the longest time, I didn't consider the differences between data scientists and statisticians. I sort of used the two terms synonymously and figured they were more similar than different. After reading the articles, I am more aware of some of the key factors that differentiate the two. 

To me, being a data scientist is about applying statistical concepts to large amounts of data in order to create valuable insights that can help a specific business. Data scientists have a balance of expertise in their field, programming, and math/statistics. In order to be a great data scientist, you need to be strong in all three of those areas, as the field is an overlap of all three. Some of the major duties of data scientists including cleaning data, transforming data, visualizing data, modeling data, and communicating findings. The ability to communicate findings is especially important, as data scientists often need to share their work with other people in their business that have less expertise in the models behind the data. Thus, finding a way to share findings in an easily understandable way becomes extremely important. 

When looking at data scientists and statisticians, one of the main differences that jumps out is the understanding of the product that data scientists need to have. Since data scientists are often working on creating insights for a specific business, they need to understand that business and their products as well as anyone. A similarity between the two is the application of statistical models. In both professions, people need to understand how to apply these models to data. A key difference is that statisticians likely need to understand more of the underlying theory behind the model than a data scientist would. Another difference within modeling is that statisticians will typically start by validating model assumptions, while data scientists are just looking for an accurate prediction model.  

I am personally very interested in data science. I love the combination of programming, statistics, and business, and I think there is so much opportunity in this field. While my degree is in statistics, I feel the statistics department at NC State does a lot to give us the tools to be both a data scientist or statistician. I have been in classes that have taught me how to validate assumptions of regression models, but I have also been in a class that has taught me how to create active predictive models. This summer, I am looking forward to learning more about data science and acquiring new skills that can help me in a future career. 
